# zunairviqar.github.io-Comic
Communications Lab Second Assignment

Project Name: 
Shut Up and Click


Project Description:
Our project is an online comic series titled "Shut Up and Click". We built an interactive website that revolves around a comic story whose events depend on the engagement of the user. In other words, the user is prompted to make either-or choices which directly affect the plot of the story. Each scenario consists of up to six panels of content and there are numerous possibilities and consequences for each decision that the user makes. The major theme is that of hacking and darkness, and the combination of green and black is a conventional way of portraying this theme. The background is a room with a dark green filter with shadows and a big computer screen in which we print everything inside. The font used throughout the website is a common one in terminals which makes it more logical to have a theme of hacking. We also used the typewriter effect for almost all the text on the website in order to make the experience more similar to that of coding and hacking. The setup makes the user ready for some dark challenge that definitely has something to do with computers.

Our website starts with an instruction to click on the screen to familiarize the user with its interactivity. A menu with listed options appears and when the mouse hovers over any of the options, they become underlined to encourage the user to click on them. The menu contains several secondary web pages inside it which are: "new game", "about", "team", and "contact". The first page is the main one and it contains the actual comic content where the story begins with a fictional character named Omar who receives a blackmailing picture from a hacker and it is up to the user to decide what happens next; should Omar ignore the hacker or should he meet up? Should he cooperate when he meets up or should he get violent? The user keeps getting prompted to decide the story plot until one of the final outcomes is fulfilled: Omar gets a light punishment from the school then is free, Omar gets locked up in prison shortly after lying, Omar gets locked up for 10 years for killing the hacker, Omar gets locked up for 20 years for poisoning five people, or Omar is able to get away from all problems peacefully or with minimal damages. We made sure that the possibilities are a lot in order to make the experience truly dependent on the user so it can be more engaging. The "about" page basically explains what the website is about and emphasizes on the interactivity of the comics. The "team" page gives some background information and a fun fact about each of the group members so the user can feel a deeper connection with the developers and writers of the comic. Finally, the "contact" page is a way for the user to raise any concerns they have about their experience with the website where they get prompted to fill certain fields including their name, their email, and their concerns and are instructed to wait for one of the employees to reach back to them.

Through the sketchy design and the effects of typing and all the other features mentioned above, we strive to provide an interesting experience which makes the user attentive to everything appearing on the screen, and getting engaged with content to try to resolve the story with events that they personally prefer. With regards to McCloud's comic concepts, our animated characters are probably placed towards the bottom left side of the triangle; being relatively realistic in features and appearance while not having much abstract figures (on the picture plane). All of the events of the story can actually happen in real-life and the background we used is extremely detailed and is definitely very realistic so it was most appropriate to make the characters look that way. We did not make them too realistic, though, because we want to differentiate between the cartoons and the background to make the focus on the events of the characters and because the exact features of Omar and the other characters are irrelevant to the story itself, we want the characters to be universal as much as possible to be relatable to as many people as we can. The way we portrayed the hacker without showing his face symbolizes how we want the user to not focus on who the hacker is but rather what the hacker represents in the story and possibly in real-life as a passage to wrong deeds. The name "Omar" was chosen because it is very common in Arab and Muslim countries but is also well-known in a number of Western countries. We were also keen to not make the character just plain white coping with the current awareness of the campaign "Black Lives Matter". The dialogue is very slang to make the user feel more connected with the character and to make it more realistic.

Our website aims to be an entertaining platform that brings in realistic ideas into a fictional story that is relatable to numerous people. It is common that people threaten others in life (through blackmails or other forms), it is common that people have to make decisive decisions through which they will get harmed anyways, it is common that there exist people who drag you into doing malicious acts for fake reasons, and it is true that we sometimes get hijacked by emotions which sometimes cause us to make uncalculated decisions which incur harmful consequences to us and to others.  


Process: 
We kept brainstorming for a while and the first idea that we got was to make a comic which has multiple possible endings. We were thinking of just making them three scenarios for convenience. We arranged a conference call and everyone kept pouring in their ideas about how the plot should go and we started to get very attached to the character and actually imagining what would happen in real-life. Because of the realistic nature of the story, it naturally has so many possible outcomes and we were keen to include them all on our website to enhance our user experience. We visually drew the events and the dialogues that occur between the characters using the online tool Twine and started to divide the work on us. Zunair would be responsible for designing the "contact" and "team" pages, Beethoven would design the "about" page and put the dialogues inside the javascript file, Tonya would be in charge of the artistic side and the designing of the characters and dialogues, and Joonha would build the interactive code that moderates the flow of the events of the story and the different possibilities. In reality, we all helped each other interchangeably and the roles were not defined by all means, but this was just the basic guideline that would help us be more efficient and specialized. 

We used JS libraries such as JQuery for different implementations of the website, and some of our code was inspired by the coding website W3schools in order to be more productive and efficient. The name of the website was inspired by an episode on Black Mirror named "Shut Up and Dance," and so we thought it would be catchy to use a similar name. We used Procreate and Adobe Photoshop to design our cartoon characters and make them look like we wanted. We used relatively advanced techniques for coding the js file for the main page because some of the group members have previous coding experience that aided them throughout. We tried to finish most of the planning and designing early on in order to receive proper feedback from Pierre and our classmates during class to maximize the constructive advice we get to improve our project. We finished the visual designs of the background and the basic structure of the secondary pages first, then wrote a code for structuring the story events and possible scenarios, then combined everything and finalized the design of all four pages. We discussed ideas through Messenger and discussed the progress of each of us and encouraged one another through conference calls we conduct everyday. 

Reflection/Evaluation:
Our main goal was to make something different and memorable that can actually be used in reality as a powerful platform. I believe we have succeeded in satisfying most of what we planned to do. Our idea of having multiple endings and possible scenarios is quite unique to our group and makes us stand out. Not only are there multiple scenarios, but the exact events of these outcomes are totally decided by the user himself through relatively realistic choices that they have to make. We were able to make the theme very appropriate to our theme of hacking and darkness using certain colors and pictures, and the font family, font color, and the typewriter effect all help in making the experience realistic as a hacking environment. We were able to create characters which resemble some realistic features while still being abstract, and to bring up many realistic ideas such as blackmailing, hacking, smartphones, automatic devices, prisons, schools, and other relatable concepts. We were also able to still integrate some emotions through the slang dialogue such as fear, anger, regret, and relief even though our theme and focus are not centered around feelings and emotions. Our story is quite relatable when it comes to witnessing crimes in real life and being threatened by others so subconsciously the users will want to finish the comic and will feel some kind of connection with it. 

If we had more time, we could have made the dimensions and proportions more appropriate for smaller screens like mobiles for example. We could have also made the website even more interactive by adding sound effects for every clickable button and maybe even some reaction sounds during the dialogue. We could have added more lines and curves showing human reactions and mood and to zoom in during scenes possibly. We could have also made the cartoon characters more realistic and engaging by animating them more and making them actually move while talking. We could have added more shadows to make the characters blend in the environment more. These are all just very ambitious ideas that we had and wished to have fulfilled if we had the time and expertise to actually implement them to the website in order to get it as close as possible to being perfect.

In general, we really enjoyed the experience and enjoyed working together as a group, and we feel like we generally satisfied all of our needs and wants in this project and hope that our feelings are reciprocated by Pierre, our peers, and our users!
